Update the release process documentation (#15587)
decidim/decidim: docs/modules/develop/pages/maintainers/releases.adoc

In order to release new version you need to be owner of all the gems at RubyGems, ask one of the owners to add you before releasing. Try `gem owner decidim` to find out the owners of the gem. It is worth making sure you are owner of all gems.

In order to release any other version of Decidim, is mandatory to have the `decidim-maintainers_toolbox` installed, and to have it on the latest version. What we can, we aim to automate.
[source,bash]
----
gem install decidim-maintainers_toolbox
----

> Before you begin the release process, make sure you check if there are any open or pending  backports. Is not mandatory to open or merge all the backports, required, but is worth having an informed decision. Please refer to xref:develop:backports.adoc[backports] page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you begin the release process, make sure you check if there are any open or pending  backports. Currently, is not mandatory to open or merge all the backports, but is something that we usually aim for. Refer to the xref:develop:backports.adoc[backports] page for more information.
```

.. Another for creating the new release in the stable branch with title `Bump to vx.y.z version`. Wait for the tests to finish and check that everything is passing before releasing the version.
During this process you will have the instructions on how to follow with the process in the command line. One of the tasks is updating Crowdin, you can read more about this in the "Create the stable branch in Crowdin" section of this page.
. Review, accept and merge the Pull Request.
. Run `git pull && bin/rake release_all`, this will create all the tags, push the commits and tags and release the gems to RubyGems. Be ready for the One Time Password fill for each of the gems.
. Once all the gems are published:
.. Re-run the failed generators tests at the release branch.
.. Always check if there are any pending security CVE's that needs to be published. If there are, add a section header called "Security fixes", and add the relevant information there, like we have done in https://github.com/decidim/decidim/releases/tag/v0.31.0[v0.31.0 release notes]
.... Add the advisory id

> .... Make sure you change the date, to be 2 months away from release date

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.... Make sure you change the date, to be 2 months away from release date
.... Add the date to your calendar to actually publish the CVEs and link them to the Release Notes when that's the case. You can see how the final result looks like at https://github.com/decidim/decidim/releases/tag/v0.29.0[v0.29.0 release notes]
```

.. Create a new release at this repository, just go to the https://github.com/decidim/decidim/releases[releases page] and create a new one.

Usually, at this point, the release branch is deployed to Metadecidim during, at least, one week to validate the stability of the version.

=== During the validation period

> . During the validation period, bugfixes must be implemented directly to the current `develop` branch, and if you need to backport, just add the red label `release: v0.xx` to allow automated backports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. During the validation period, bugfixes must be implemented directly to the current `develop` branch, and if you need to backport, just add the labels `type: fix` and also the `release: v0.xx` to allow automated backports.
```

>  ... In special cases only (when the feature aimed to be fixed does not exist anymore in `develop`), you can open the Pull request directly against the release branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 ... In special cases only (when the feature aimed to be fixed does not exist anymore in `develop`), you can open the Pull Request directly against the release branch. This is something that we usually defer to doing, as it could bring inconsistencies between the versions, making the maintenance harder.
```

----
gem install decidim-maintainers_toolbox
decidim-releaser --github-token=(gh auth token) --version-type=minor
----
. Wait for the tests to finish and check that everything is passing before releasing the version.
NOTE: When you bump the version, the generator tests will fail because the gems and NPM packages have not been actually published yet (as in sent to rubygems/npm). You may see errors such as `No matching version found for @decidim/browserslist-config@~0.xx.y` in the CI logs. This should be fine as long as you have ensured that the generators tests passed in the previous commit.
. Run `git pull && bin/rake release_all`, this will create all the tags, push the commits and tags and release the gems to RubyGems. Be ready for the One Time Password fill for each of the gems.
. Once all the gems are published:
.. Re-run the failed generators tests at the release branch.
.. Always check if there are any pending security CVE's that needs to be published. If there are, add a section header called "Security fixes", and add the relevant information there, like we have done in https://github.com/decidim/decidim/releases/tag/v0.31.0[v0.31.0 release notes]
.... Add the advisory id

> .... Make sure you change the date, to be 2 months away from release date

Reviewer: If you liked my suggestion about the calendar, we should apply it here too

Author: Done in 927733c7a9

. Run `git pull && bin/rake release_all`, this will create all the tags, push the commits and tags and release the gems to RubyGems. Be ready for the One Time Password fill for each of the gems.
. Once all the gems are published:
 .. Re-run the failed generators tests at the release branch.
 .. Always check if there are any pending security CVE's that needs to be published. If there are, add a section header called "Security fixes", and add the relevant information there, like we have done in https://github.com/decidim/decidim/releases/tag/v0.31.0[v0.31.0 release notes]
 .... Add the advisory id

>  .... Make sure you change the date, to be 2 months away from release date

Reviewer: Dito

Author: done in 927733c7a9
